This article is about the television series. For the wider franchise, see
Monkey Massacre Productions (seasons 1–4)
is an American television series created by
. Produced by Monkey Massacre Productions and
was released on Netflix on July 15, 2016. The
seasons followed in October 2017 and July 2019, respectively, and the
was released in two parts in May and July 2022. The
was released in three volumes, including the finale, in November and December 2025. The show combines elements of horror, science fiction,
Set in the 1980s, the series centers on the residents of the fictional small town of Hawkins,
, inadvertently creates a wormhole known as the
, at a nearby secretive government research facility, connecting Earth to a hostile realm called the Abyss. The cast includes
as a blend of investigative drama and supernatural horror, infused with childlike wonder and references to the popular culture of the 1980s. Several thematic and directorial elements were inspired by the works of
has received positive reviews throughout its run, with praise for its characterization, atmosphere, acting, direction, writing, and homage to 1980s cinema, making it a touchstone of
is a flagship series for Netflix, drawing record viewership with each season's release. The series has expanded into a
. It has also inspired several books, comics, tie-in media, a
role-playing starter set game based on the series.
is set in the fictional rural town of Hawkins,
, in the 1980s. Hawkins is described as "the town where nothing ever happens" in the second season. The nearby Hawkins National Laboratory ostensibly performs scientific research for the
and supernatural, sometimes with human test subjects. They inadvertently create a portal to an alternate dimension referred to as the
, whose presence begins to affect the residents of Hawkins in unusual ways.
is abducted by a creature from the Upside Down, dubbed the "
, and a group of volunteers search for him. A young
escapes from Hawkins Lab and is found by Will's friends,
. Eleven befriends and assists them in their efforts to find Will. Mike's older sister
learn about the Demogorgon and the existence of the Upside Down. Will is eventually found alive, while Eleven disappears after killing the Demogorgon.
is set 11 months later, between October and November 1984. Joyce is dating her former classmate
, but they discover that Will is still affected by a shadowy entity from the Upside Down. Will's friends and family learn that anything connected to the Upside Down is part of a
. Lucas earns the affection of a new classmate,
, while Dustin teams up with Nancy's ex-boyfriend
to fend off a horde of adolescent Demogorgons—dubbed "Demodogs"—which kill Bob and threaten the rest of their friends. Eleven reappears and closes the gate to the Upside Down underneath Hawkins Laboratory.
is set nine months later, in the days leading up to the
celebrations in 1985. The new Starcourt Mall becomes the center of attention for Hawkins residents. Hopper adopts Eleven and becomes increasingly concerned about her relationship with Mike. Dustin, Steve and his coworker
laboratory beneath Starcourt is attempting to reopen the gateway to the Upside Down. Meanwhile, the Mind Flayer possesses Max's stepbrother,
, and begins creating physical vessels made of melted flesh to carry out its will. Eleven loses her powers, Billy dies, and Hopper seemingly dies when the Soviets' gate is closed.
is set eight months later, in March 1986. The Byers family and Eleven have moved to Lenora, California for a fresh start. In Hawkins, multiple teenagers are murdered by the Mind Flayer's partner and Hawkins Laboratory's first test subject—later dubbed
—to open gates between Hawkins and the Upside Down. Vecna frames Dustin's friend
for the murders and targets Max as his fourth victim. To help Eleven regain her powers, Dr.
takes her to a secure facility. Joyce and
learn that Hopper survived but was captured by Soviets, so they rescue him from a
. Eleven regains her powers, but Vecna's forces kill Eddie, cause Max to fall into a coma, and open rifts throughout Hawkins.
is primarily set in November 1987. The military puts Hawkins under quarantine and hunts for Eleven, while the group tracks down Vecna until he kidnaps Nancy and Mike's younger sister,
, alongside 11 other children. The Upside Down is discovered to be a
between Hawkins and another dimension known as the Abyss; Vecna plans to use the children to merge the Abyss with Hawkins. The group ultimately rescues the captured children, kills Vecna and the Mind Flayer, and destroys the Upside Down. To prevent the military from creating new psychic test subjects with her blood, Eleven stays behind in the collapsing Upside Down. 18 months later, in May 1989, Mike, Will, Dustin, Lucas, and Max graduate from high school, and Hopper proposes to Joyce. Mike theorizes about how Eleven could have potentially faked her death.
the mother of Will and Jonathan Byers. She is divorced from their father, Lonnie Byers. Protective and strong-willed, she becomes determined to find Will after he goes missing, convinced that his disappearance is paranormal in nature.
the chief of Hawkins Police Department. After his young daughter Sara died of cancer, Hopper divorced and lapsed into alcoholism. He becomes more responsible, helping Joyce investigate the truth behind Will's disappearance, and adopting Eleven as his daughter. He and Joyce have feelings for each other.
middle child and the only son of Karen and
, brother of Nancy and Holly, and one of Will Byers's three close friends. He is an intelligent and conscientious student and is committed to his friends. He develops romantic feelings for Eleven and later dates her.
abilities as a result of being one of Dr. Brenner's subjects from Hawkins National Laboratory. She escapes the lab and eventually becomes an adoptive daughter to Jim Hopper and takes his surname, and adjusts to living a normal life with the help of Mike (whom she later dates) and his friends.
. In the second season, he is proud of his new front teeth and is attracted to Max. In season three, he gets a girlfriend, Suzie, who he met at summer camp.
one of Will's friends. He is wary of Eleven but later befriends her. In season two, he is one of Max's love interests and eventually becomes her boyfriend. In season four, he becomes more popular at school after joining the Hawkins High basketball team, which briefly puts him at odds with his regular friend group.
daughter of Karen and Ted and older sister of Mike and Holly. Studious and rule-abiding, Nancy finds another side of herself while investigating Hawkins Lab and the death of her friend Barbara. In the first two seasons, she is the girlfriend of Steve Harrington, but breaks up with him and then dates Jonathan Byers. She is an aspiring journalist.
the older brother of Will Byers and the son of Joyce Byers. He is a quiet and kind-hearted teenager, an outsider at school, and an aspiring photographer. He is close with his mother and brother, and he becomes the boyfriend of Nancy Wheeler.
(seasons 1–3 and 5; recurring: season 4),
mother of Nancy, Mike, and Holly, who is mostly unaware of her children's activities for much of the series.
the scientist in charge of Hawkins Laboratory and training Eleven. Manipulative and remote, he and his team search for Eleven in season one after she escapes. He is referred to as "Papa" by Eleven. In season 4, he returns to help Eleven regain her powers and protect her from the government agents hunting her down.
the son of Joyce Byers and younger brother of Jonathan Byers. He is captured by a monster from the Upside Down in season one. He later develops a connection to the Upside Down and the Mind Flayer due to his capture. He struggles with his sexuality and unrequited feelings for Mike, and comes out as gay in season five.
(seasons 2–5), Billy's younger stepsister and a
who catches the attention of both Lucas and Dustin, eventually dating Lucas. In season four, she becomes one of the teens targeted by Vecna.
(seasons 2–5; recurring: season 1), a popular high school student and the boyfriend of Nancy Wheeler. He ostracizes Jonathan Byers but later befriends him. He and Nancy break up in season two but remain friends. He is known as the "babysitter" of the group, often left to look after the kids, particularly Dustin, with whom he forms a strong rapport.
(seasons 2–3; guest: season 4), Max's violent, unpredictable, and abusive older stepbrother. He challenges Steve's popularity. In season three, he is controlled by the Mind Flayer and dies in the process.
(season 2), a former schoolmate of Joyce and Hopper who runs the Hawkins
He is Joyce's boyfriend, putting him at odds with Hopper. He dies after being attacked by creatures from the Upside Down.
(seasons 2 and 4; guest: season 3), a Department of Energy executive who replaces Brenner as director of Hawkins Laboratory. He is committed to scientific research yet empathetic to the residents of Hawkins, and he helps Hopper adopt Eleven as his legal daughter. He returns with Brenner in season four to help Eleven regain her powers and to protect her from government agents hunting her.
(seasons 3–5), a girl who works alongside Steve at the mall ice cream shop. She later comes out as a lesbian to him. She and Steve become close friends, working together at Scoops Ahoy and later at the video store.
In season five, she begins dating her classmate Vickie, a volunteer nurse.
(seasons 3–5; co-star: season 2), Lucas's younger sister who helps the group. She is very smart and has an avid interest in
(seasons 4–5; recurring: seasons 2–3), a conspiracy theorist, private investigator, and old acquaintance of Hopper who assists Nancy and Jonathan, and later Hopper and Joyce.
(season 5), the sinister leader of the military unit dispatched to Hawkins after the opening of rifts to the Upside Down. She oversees a research base installed within the Upside Down itself.
(season 5; recurring: season 4), a murderous psychic being from the Upside Down. Having attained supernatural abilities as a child, he murdered his family and was subsequently placed under Brenner's care. Flashbacks in season four reveal that Eleven banished him to another dimension, when she was eight years old, where he was disfigured and joined Mind Flayer's hive-mind.
, Nancy and Mike's younger sister and Karen's youngest child.
Ross (left) and Matt Duffer, the creators and showrunners of the series
was created by Matt and Ross Duffer, known professionally as
and direct many of the episodes. They wrote and produced their 2015 film
, its distributor, it did not see wide release and the Duffers were unsure of their future.
s script, and offered them the opportunity to work on episodes of
with Shyamalan. The brothers were mentored by Shyamalan during the episode's production so that when they finished, they felt they were ready to produce their own television series.
similar to the series' eventual pilot episode, along with a 20-page
They pitched the story to about 15 cable networks,
all of whom felt a plot with children as leading characters would not work and asked the brothers to either make it a children's series or drop the children and focus on Hopper's investigation into the paranormal.
. They subsequently invited the Duffer Brothers to their office and purchased the rights for the series, giving the brothers full authorship. After reading the pilot, the streaming service
purchased the whole season for an undisclosed sum,
and in April of the same year, the series was announced for a 2016 release.
The Duffer Brothers stated that at the time they pitched to Netflix, the company had already been recognized for its original programming in shows such as
, with well-recognized producers behind them, and were ready to start giving upcoming producers like them a chance.
The brothers started casting and brought Levy and Cohen in as the other executive producers to discuss storylines, with Levy also directing for the show.
is an eight-hour sci-fi horror epic. Set in Long Island in 1980 and inspired by the supernatural classics of that era, we explore the crossroads where the ordinary meet the extraordinary...emotional, cinematic, and rooted in character,
is a love letter to the golden age of Steven Spielberg and Stephen King – a marriage of human drama and supernatural fear.
— The Duffer Brothers' original pitch for
The book cover the Duffer Brothers created to pitch
locations. Montauk figured into several real-world
The brothers had chosen Montauk as it had further Spielberg ties with the film
, where Montauk was used for the fictional setting of Amity Island.
After deciding to change the narrative of the series to take place in the fictional town of Hawkins instead, the brothers felt they could now do things to the town, such as placing it under quarantine, that they really could not envision with a real location.
With the location change, they had to come up with a new title for the series under direction from Netflix's Ted Sarandos, so that they could start marketing it to the public. The brothers started by using a copy of Stephen King's
novel to consider the title's font and appearance, and came up with a long list of potential alternatives.
came about as it sounded similar to another King novel,
, though Matt noted they still had a "lot of heated arguments" over this final title.
To pitch the series, the Duffer Brothers showcased images, footage and music from classic 1970s and 1980s films such as
started with how the brothers felt they could take the concept of the 2013 film
, detailing the moral struggles a father goes through when his daughter is kidnapped, and expand it out over eight or so hours in a serialized television approach. As they focused on the missing child aspect of the story, they wanted to introduce the idea of "childlike sensibilities" they could offer, and toyed around with the idea of a monster that could consume humans. The brothers thought the combination of these things "was the best thing ever".
To introduce this monster into the narrative, they considered "bizarre experiments we had read about taking place in the Cold War" such as
, which gave a way to ground the monster's existence in science rather than something spiritual. This also helped them to decide on using 1983 as the time period, as it was a year before the film
came out, which focused on Cold War paranoia.
Subsequently, they were able to use all their own personal inspirations from the 1980s, the decade in which they were born, as elements of the series,
crafting it in the realm of science fiction and horror.
Other influences cited by the Duffers include:
The Duffers believe that they may have brought influences from other works unintentionally, including
, discovered by reviewing fan feedback on the series.
Several websites and publications have found other pop culture references in the series, particularly references to 1980s pop culture.
The primary antagonist for the final two seasons,
, was inspired by the villains that scared the brothers when they watched the movies and miniseries as children:
With Netflix as the platform, the Duffers were not limited to a typical 22-episode format, opting for the eight-episode approach. They had been concerned that a 22-episode season on broadcast television would make it difficult to "tell a cinematic story". Eight episodes allowed them to give time to characterization in addition to narrative development; if they had less time available, they would have had to remain committed to telling a horror film as soon as the monster was introduced and abandon the characterization.
Within the eight episodes, the brothers aimed to make the first season "feel like a big movie" with all the major plot lines completed so that "the audience feels satisfied", but left enough unresolved to indicate "there's a bigger mythology, and there's a lot of dangling threads at the end", something that could be explored in further seasons if Netflix chose to greenlight more.
Regarding writing for the children characters of the series, the Duffers considered themselves outcasts from other students while in high school and thus found it easy to write for Mike and his friends, and particularly for Barb.
, as she appears "absolutely bonkers" to everyone else as she tries to find Will.
as Chief Hopper, believing this was his opportunity to portray a lead character.
had joined the series as Joyce and the unnamed chief of police, respectively.
Ryder's sole condition to the Duffers in accepting the part was that, if a sequel to
had been discussing since 2000, they had to let her take a break to shoot it, a condition the Duffers agreed and ultimately proved to work out when
The brothers' casting director Carmen Cuba had suggested Ryder for the role of Joyce, which the two were immediately drawn to because of her predominance in 1980s films.
Levy believed Ryder could "wretch up the emotional urgency and yet find layers and nuance and different sides of [Joyce]". Ryder praised that the show's multiple storylines required her to act for Joyce as if "she's out of her mind, but she's actually kind of onto something", and that the producers had faith she could pull off the difficult role.
The Duffer Brothers had been interested in Harbour before, who until
primarily had smaller roles as villainous characters, and they felt that he had been "waiting too long for this opportunity" to play a lead, while Harbour himself was thrilled by the script and the chance to play "a broken, flawed, anti-hero character".
Additional casting followed two months later with
Actors auditioning for the children's roles read lines from the 1986 film
The Duffers estimated they went through about a thousand different child actors for the roles. They noted that Wolfhard was already "a movie buff" of the films from the 1980s period and easily filled the role, while they found Matarazzo's audition to be much more authentic than most of the other audition tapes, and selected him after a single viewing of his audition tape.
As casting had begun immediately after Netflix greenlit the series, and prior to the scripts being fully completed, this allowed some of the actors' takes on the roles to reflect on the script. The casting of the young actors for Will and his friends had been done just after the first script was completed, and subsequent scripts incorporated aspects from these actors.
The brothers said Modine provided significant input on the character of Dr. Brenner, whom they had not really fleshed out before, as they considered him the hardest character to write for given his limited appearances within the narrative.
served as the location of Hawkins National Laboratory.
The brothers had desired to film the series around the
area to match the initial Montauk concept. However, with filming scheduled to take place in November 2015, it was difficult to shoot in Long Island in the cold weather, and the production started scouting locations in and around the
, Georgia, area. The brothers, who grew up in North Carolina, found many places that reminded them of their own childhoods in that area, and felt the area would work well with the narrative shift to the fictional town of Hawkins, Indiana.
Filming for the first season began in November 2015 and was extensively done in Atlanta, Georgia, with the Duffer Brothers and Levy handling the direction of individual episodes.
served as the basis of the fictional town of Hawkins, Indiana.
Filming locations also included Emory University's Continuing Education Department, the former city hall in
, Old East Point Library and East Point First Baptist Church in
Set work was done at Screen Gem Studios in Atlanta
Filming for the first season concluded in early 2016.
After the third season finished filming, producers considered the idea of keeping the Starcourt Mall set as a permanent attraction for fans to visit, but ultimately decided against it.
Filming for the fourth season was slated to begin in January 2020 and to last through August.
With the release of a February 2020 teaser for the season, the Duffers confirmed that production had started.
Some filming for the fourth season took place at
In March 2020, production was stopped due to the
Filming for the fifth and final season was expected to start in June 2023,
Production began on that day and wrapped on December 20.
To create the aged effect for the series, a
was added over the footage, which was captured by scanning in film stock from the 1980s.
The Duffer Brothers wanted to scare the audience, but not to necessarily make the series violent or gory, following in line with how the 1980s
. They said such films were "much more about mood and atmosphere and suspense and dread than they are about gore", though they were not afraid to push into more scary elements, particularly towards the end of the first season.
for the monster and other parts of the series and stay with
, so they created an animatronic to play the part of the Demogorgon.
However, the six-month filming time left them little time to plan out and test practical effects rigs for some of the shots. They went with a middle ground of using constructed props, including one for the monster whenever they could, but for other shots, such as when the monster bursts through a wall, they opted to use digital effects. Post-production on the first season was completed the week before it was released to Netflix.
The title sequence uses close-ups of the letters in the
title with a red tint against a black background as they slide into place within the title. The sequence was created by the studio Imaginary Forces, formerly part of
, led by creative director Michelle Doughtey.
Levy introduced the studio to the Duffer Brothers, who explained their vision of the 1980s-inspired series, which helped the studio to fix the concept the producers wanted. Later, but before filming, the producers sent Imaginary Forces the pilot script, the synth-heavy background music for the titles, as well as the various book covers from King and other authors that they had used to establish the title and imagery, and were looking for a similar approach for the series' titles, primarily using a typographical sequence.
They took inspiration from several title sequences of works from the 1980s that were previously designed by Richard Greenberg under R/GA, such as
. They also got input from Dan Perri, who worked on the title credits of several 1980s films. Various iterations included having letters vanish, to reflect the "missing" theme of the series, and having letters cast shadows on others, alluding to the mysteries, before settling into the sliding letters. The studio began working on the title sequence before filming, and took about a month off during the filming process to let the producers get immersed in the series and come back with more input.
Initially, they had been working with various fonts for the title and used close-ups of the best features of these fonts, but near the end, the producers wanted to work with
, requiring them to rework those shots. The final sequence is fully computer-generated, but they took inspiration from testing some practical effects, such as using Kodalith masks as would have been done in the 1980s, to develop the appropriate filters for the rendering software. The individual episode title cards used a "fly through" approach, similar to the film
, which the producers had suggested to the studio.
Michael Stein and Kyle Dixon of the electronic band
have composed the original soundtrack for the show, including the show's theme song.
It makes extensive use of synthesizers in homage to 1980s artists and film composers including
According to Stein and Dixon, the Duffer Brothers had been fans of Survive's music since the 2014 film
Once the series was green-lit, the Duffer Brothers contacted Survive around July 2015 to ask if they were still doing music; the two provided the production team with dozens of songs from their band's past to gain their interest, helping to land them the role.
features period music from artists including
, as well as excerpts from Tangerine Dream, John Carpenter, and Vangelis.
Some songs have been used as narrative elements, such as
Some of these licensed songs saw subsequent resurgence on sales charts after the respective seasons they featured in aired, most notably "Running Up That Hill" and
Soundtracks containing the original compositions and the licensed music for each season have been released by
The first season consisted of eight one-hour-long episodes which were released worldwide on Netflix on July 15, 2016,
. The second season, consisting of nine episodes, was released on October 27, 2017, in HDR.
The third season once again consists of eight episodes,
The fourth season, consisting of nine episodes, was released in two volumes on May 27 and July 1, 2022, respectively.
In February 2022, Netflix renewed the series for a fifth and final season.
The fifth season, consisting of eight episodes, premiered its first volume on November 26, 2025, the second on December 25, 2025, and the
Shortly after the fourth season's release, viewers reported that Will's friends did not acknowledge his birthday in an episode of the season that took place on that day. The Duffers said in an interview that they could rectify the matter by changing its month, which they called "George Lucas-ing the situation", in reference to the
trilogy to match what the prequel trilogy had added.
Some viewers took this to imply that scenes from earlier seasons were also being edited, including one scene where Jonathan takes discreet pictures of a pool party that Steve, Nancy, and Barbara are holding. The writers stated that "no scenes from previous seasons have ever been cut or re-edited", including this scene.
The first season was released on a Blu-ray/DVD combo pack exclusively to
retailers on October 17, 2017, and the same for the 4K/Blu-ray combo pack on November 15, 2017, both of which includes vintage
The second season received a similar release on November 6, 2018.
Netflix did not initially reveal subscriber viewership numbers for their original series, and
compiled data for the season based on people using software on their phones that measures television viewing by detecting a program's sound. According to Symphony, within the first 35 days of release,
million adults between the ages of 18 and 49 in the United States. This made it the third most-watched season of Netflix original content in the U.S. at the time behind the first season of
In a September 2016 analysis, Netflix found that
"hooked" viewers by the second episode of the first season, indicating that the second episode was "the first installment that led at least 70 percent of viewers who watched that episode to complete the entire first season of a show".
For the third season, Netflix revealed that the show had broken viewing records for Netflix, with 40.7
million households having watched the show in its first four days, and 18.2
million already watched the entire series within that timeframe.
Within its first month, the third season was watched by 64
million households, setting a new record for the most-watched original Netflix series.
The series is the most followed TV show on social media app
s history, with over 5 million followers.
For the first season, Rotten Tomatoes calculated an approval rating of 97% based on 92 reviews and an average rating of 8.2/10. The site's critical consensus states, "Exciting, heartbreaking, and sometimes scary,
of 74 out of 100 based on 142 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
, relating their nostalgic feel by "...finding that timeless moment where everything seemed tantalizingly, scarily new".
The second season has an approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes of 94% based on 150 reviews. The site's critical consensus states, "
slow-building sophomore season balances moments of humor and a nostalgic sweetness against a growing horror that's all the more effective thanks to the show's full-bodied characters and evocative tone."
On Metacritic, the season has a normalized score of 78 out of 100, based on 33 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Rotten Tomatoes gave the third season an approval rating of 89% based on 141 reviews. The site's critical consensus states, "Vibrant and charming,
transforms itself into a riveting—if familiar—summer ride that basks in its neon-laden nostalgia without losing sight of the rich relationships that make the series so endearing."
On Metacritic, it has a normalized score of 72 out of 100, based on 28 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Rotten Tomatoes gave the fourth season an approval rating of 90% based on 200 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "Darker and denser than its predecessors,
fourth chapter sets the stage for the show's final season in typically binge-worthy fashion."
Metacritic gave a score of 69 out of 100 based on 29 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Rotten Tomatoes gave the fifth and final season an approval rating of 83% based on 168 reviews. The site's critics consensus states, "
plays its cards just right in Season 5, solidifying its pop culture classic status with genuinely captivating genre fare."
Metacritic gave a score of 71 out of 100 based on 32 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
was ranked the third-best television show of 2016 by
polled 206 "critics, journalists, academics and industry figures" from around the world to compile
the 100 greatest television series of the 21st century
received widespread attention from fans and led to her being nominated for a
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series
gained a dedicated fan base soon after its release. One area of focus was the character of Barb, Nancy's friend and classmate who is killed off early into the first season.
, Barb "wasn't supposed to be a big deal", and the Duffer Brothers had not gone into great detail about the character since the focus was on finding Will. However, many fans sympathized with the character; Laura Bradley of
suggested that Barb would be a similar misfit in society, and "looks more like someone you might actually meet in real life" compared to the other characters, particularly Nancy. Hashtags grew in popularity after the series' release, such as "#ImWithBarb" and "#JusticeforBarb", and several fan sites and forums were created to support her.
Purser did not return for the second season, but the Duffers used the real-life "Justice for Barb" movement as inspiration for a storyline at the start of the season, in which Nancy addresses the fact "that no one ever cares about" Barb.
Purser and several media outlets took her nomination for a
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series
as achieving "Justice for Barb", highlighting how well her character was received.
Another impact of the series has been an increased demand for
waffles, as they are shown to be Eleven's favorite food in several episodes and are seen as a representation of the series.
manufactures Eggo and had not been part of the production prior to the first season's release, but they recognized the market impact of the series. They provided a vintage 1980s Eggo television advertisement for Netflix to use in its
commercial, and they intend to become more involved with cross-promotion.
(introduced in 1985) to coincide with the third season, which takes place in 1985.
In April 2018, filmmaker Charlie Kessler filed a lawsuit against the Duffer Brothers, claiming that they stole his idea behind his short film
, which featured a similar premise of a missing boy, a nearby military base doing otherworldly experiments, and a monster from another dimension. Kessler directed the film and debuted it at the 2012
in April 2014, he pitched his film to the Duffer brothers and later gave them "the script, ideas, story and film" for a larger film idea which he called
. Kessler contended that the Duffer brothers used his ideas to devise the premise for
and sought a third of the income that they had made from the series.
The Duffer brothers' lawyer stated that they never saw Kessler's film nor spoke to him regarding it, and that Kessler had no input into their concepts for
The judge denied summary judgment for the Duffer brothers in April 2019, allowing Kessler's suit to proceed to trial.
Just before the trial was due to start in May 2019, Kessler withdrew his lawsuit after hearing the depositions and seeing documents from as early as 2010 which showed him that the Duffers had independently come up with the concept of
Journalists have noted that the idea of supernatural events around Montauk had originated due to urban legend of the
In September 2017, multiple media outlets published articles about a cease-and-desist letter sent by a Netflix in-house attorney to the operator of a
The letter included humorous references to the series: "unless I'm living in the Upside Down"; "we're not going to go full Dr. Brenner on you"; "the demogorgon is not always as forgiving". The letter also won praise from lawyers for its even-handedness in not demanding immediate closure of the bar, only demanding that the bar not remain open without Netflix's permission past its initial scheduled run.
In July 2022, six Jewish and Roma groups condemned the use of
as a filming location for the fourth season. Protesters pointed out the prison's involvement in
; denounced Netflix's partnering with local tourism board Go Vilnius to rent out a refurbished
; and criticized Netflix's decision to repost images of fans' Eleven-inspired
on their Instagram, saying it "desecrates the living memories of Holocaust survivors". A petition calling on Netflix to close the rental and apologize garnered more than 60,000 signatures, leading Go Vilnius to shut down the Airbnb listing indefinitely. Multiple news outlets contacted Netflix for comment, but received no response.
List of awards and nominations received by
has received numerous awards and nominations across the entertainment industry, including ten
nominations through the second season. The series' cast has received several of these: the series' first-season cast won the
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series
, while series leads Ryder, Brown, and Harbour have earned individual awards and nominations.
The success of the series has led to a wider
, which includes various television spin-offs, a
, a line of novels and comics, several video games, and extensive licensed merchandise.
Fisher is credited as part of the recurring cast in all episodes of season five except for the final episode, where she is credited with the main cast.
"Duffer Brothers Launch Netflix Shingle Upside Down Pictures"
"Season 4 of Stranger Things Reportedly Costed $30 Million Per Episode"
"Stranger Things Season 5's Massive Budget Could Revolutionize Streaming TV"
"It's 2016. Why Are We Still Obsessed With the '80s?"
"Stranger Things' 1980s nostalgia has long passed its sell-by date"
"Stranger Things Is a Scary, Poignant Piece of 1980s Nostalgia"
"Variety 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time"
Wesley Stenzel and James Mercadante (June 26, 2025).
"The 25 best Netflix original series of all time, from Squid Game to Stranger Things"
Bianca Rodriguez and Kayleigh Roberts (April 21, 2025).
"Why 'Stranger Things' is the greatest show of the streaming era"
"Stranger Things' All-Time Stats: 1.2 Billion Total Views (EXCLUSIVE)"
"How Netflix's marketing made 'Stranger Things' a cultural phenomenon"
"The 20 Best Netflix Shows of All Time — Ranked"
'Stranger Things' Animated Series Ordered at Netflix"
'Stranger Things: Tales From '85' Animated Series Premieres First Footage and Reveals What It's About"
"Is Hawkins A Real Town? 'Stranger Things' Will Make You Nostalgic For These Other '80s Classics"
"Stranger Things season 2: Who's in danger? Who's new? The plot revealed!"
'Stranger Things': First Season 3 Details Revealed"
"Noah Schnapp Teases 'Stranger Things' Season 3: "It's Very Different"
"Scoop: Winona Ryder to Headline Untitled Netflix Supernatural Thriller"
"Duffer Bros. Netflix Supernatural Drama Series Sets Young Cast, Gets Title"
"Cara Buono Joins Netflix's 'Stranger Things'; Dean Cain In 'Lady Dynamite'
"Netflix's 'Stranger Things' Adds Matthew Modine to Cast (Exclusive)"
'Stranger Things' executive producer confirms a major character's fate"
'Stranger Things' Trailer: First Look At Netflix's Supernatural Drama Starring Winona Ryder & Matthew Modine"
'Stranger Things' Netflix Series Adds Two New Regulars, Promotes Two For Season 2"
"EXCLUSIVE: 'Stranger Things' Actor Joe Keery on Season 2, Steve's Hair and Justice for Barb"
'Stranger Things' Season 2 Casts Sean Astin, Paul Reiser, Linnea Berthelsen"
'Stranger Things' Season 2 Scoop: Sean Astin Playing Winona Ryder's 'Boyfriend' & More"
'Stranger Things': Priah Ferguson Promoted, Maya Hawke Added As New Regular In Season 3 Of Netflix Series"
'Stranger Things': How Two Brothers Created Summer's Biggest TV Hit"
"Matt and Ross Duffer Discuss 'Stranger Things,' a Nightmare on '80s Street"
"16 Things You NEVER Knew About Stranger Things"
'Stranger Things': Shawn Levy on Directing Winona Ryder, Netflix's Viral Model"
"Netflix Orders 'Montauk' Supernatural Drama Series from 'Wayward Pines' Duffer Twins"
"Netflix Orders Supernatural Drama Series From Matt & Ross Duffer, Shawn Levy"
"How to Sell Your TV Series the Stranger Things Way"
"Netflix Orders Supernatural Drama Series From Matt & Ross Duffer, Shawn Levy"
"The Duffer Brothers Talk 'Stranger Things' Influences, 'It' Dreams and Netflix Phase 2"
"Inside 'Stranger Things': The Duffer Bros. on How They Made the TV Hit of the Summer"
"Stranger Things is an Homage to the Greats"
"On Television: "Stranger Things" and "The Get Down"
"The Duffer Brothers Talk 'Stranger Things' Influences, 'It' Dreams and Netflix Phase 2"
"The cinematic influences behind Netflix's 'Stranger Things'
Channels Steven Spielberg, John Carpenter and Stephen King"
'Stranger Things': Season 2 Plans & How David Lynch Could Control the Ending"
"Stranger Things: all the hidden (and not-so-hidden) movie, TV and book references"
"Yes, Stranger Things' Upside Down was totally inspired by Silent Hill"
"How Silent Hill, Dark Souls and The Last of Us Influenced Stranger Things"
Glossary: Every Major Film Reference in the Show, From A–Z"
"Strange Influences: Our Favorite Movie References From
'Stranger Things' Season 4 villain Vecna inspired by Freddy Krueger – USA Today"
'Stranger Things' EPs on Season 2: 'We Could Explore It If Netflix Wanted To'
"Stranger Things: the Duffer brothers share the secrets of their hit show"
"Winona Ryder's 'One Condition' for Joining 'Stranger Things' Was a Filming Break If 'Beetlejuice 2' Ever Happened: 'They Agreed. Luckily, It Worked Out'
'Stranger Things': Winona Ryder Discusses First Major TV Role in Netflix Featurette"
'Stranger Things' Star David Harbour's Long, Dark Road to Leading Man"
"This 19-Year-Old Unknown Actress Just Became an '80s Cult Icon"
"Ross Partridge Joins cast of Stranger Things"
"Netflix's Atlanta Filmed 'Stranger Things' Looks Amazing"
"New Netflix Show 'Stranger Things' Films in Georgia"
'Stranger Things' shoots on Jackson square"
"Stranger Things's Filming Locations Are Just as Spooky in Real Life"
"Georgia Locations for Netflix's 'Stranger Things'
"The Making of "Stranger Things" with DP Tim Ives"
'Stranger Things' dismantling what's left of Starcourt Mall at Gwinnett Place Mall"
"Stranger Things Season 4: Here's How Many Episodes We're Getting"
Khatchatourian, Maane (February 14, 2020).
'Stranger Things 4' Teaser Reveals That Hopper's Alive and Imprisoned in Russia"
"Stranger Things Season 4: New Behind-The-Scenes Images Revealed"
Thorne, Will; Aurthur, Kate (March 12, 2020).
"All the Shows and Movies Shut Down or Delayed Because of Coronavirus"
'Stranger Things' Season 4 expected to start filming today"
'Stranger Things' Star David Harbour Reveals When Season 5 Will Begin Filming"
'Stranger Things' Is Officially In Production On Season 5 — First Photo"
'Stranger Things' Wraps Production On 5th & Final Season; Behind-The-Scenes Photos"
"50 Things You Didn't Know About 'Stranger Things'
'Stranger Things': How the Duffer Brothers created their monster"
"How the Stranger Things Titles Came Out So Perfectly Retro"
Co-Composer Shares the Story Behind 2016's Most Unlikely Musical Sensation"
"Stranger Things: 10 eerie electronic gems to hear if you loved the Netflix show"
Weingarten, Christopher (August 1, 2016).
'Stranger Things': Meet the Band Behind Show's Creepy, Nostalgic Score"
"How the Duffer Brothers Picked the Perfect Music for 'Stranger Things'
"Unpacking the '80s nostalgia of the 'Stranger Things' soundtrack"
"Kate Bush gets another huge streaming boost after premiere of
"How 'Stranger Things' Pulled Off Its Most Ambitious Music Moment Yet"
"Kate Bush heading to number one after chart rule reset"
'Master of Puppets' got some 'Stranger Things' love. Now Metallica returns the favor"
"Netflix Unveils Premiere Dates For 'Orange Is The New Black,' 'The Get Down,' 'Flaked' And Others"
"Stranger Things Season 2 Premiere Date, Huge Monster Threat Revealed"
"Exclusive: 'Stranger Things' Season 3 Starts Filming Monday; Andrew Stanton Not Returning"
"Netflix Reveals 'Stranger Things' Season 3 Premiere Date"
'Stranger Things' Season 4 Gets a Premiere Date, But New Season Will Be Split in Half"
Renewed For Fifth And Final Season, Gets Premiere Dates For Split Season 4 As Duffer Brothers Tease Potential Spinoffs"
"Stranger Things Season 5 Release Dates Revealed Alongside New Teaser Trailer"
'Stranger Things' Writers Deny Old Episodes Are Being Re-Edited, Including That Creepy Jonathan Scene"
"Looks Like Stranger Things Is Coming To Blu-Ray, After All"
"Stranger Things" Season 1 Getting VHS-Style Blu-ray Release at Target"
"Stranger Things Season 2 Target Exclusive (4K/UHD)"
"Stranger Things Season 2 (Target Exclusive) (Blu-Ray + DVD)"
'Stranger Things' Ratings: Where Series Ranks Among Netflix's Most Watched"
'Stranger Things' won over most viewers in just two episodes, according to Netflix"
"Stranger Things 3 smashes viewing figure record for Netflix"
'Stranger Things 3' Is Most-Watched Season to Date, Netflix Says"
"Netflix's Most Popular Original Has An Audience Bigger Than Canada's Population"
"Review: With 'Stranger Things,' Netflix Delivers an Eerie Nostalgia Fix"
"The 50 best TV shows of 2016: the full list"
Dyer, John Nugent, Emma Thrower, James White, Owen Williams, James (December 2, 2016).
:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (
"The 100 greatest TV series of the 21st Century"
"Shannon Purser: 'People have actually had Barb's face tattooed on their bodies'
"How the Internet Made Barb from Stranger Things Happen"
"EXCLUSIVE: 'Stranger Things' Star Shannon Purser Reacts to First Emmy Nom and Finally Getting Justice for Barb"
"An Emmy Nomination Is Truly Justice for Barb"
"Why Eleven From Stranger Things Is the Perfect National Waffle Day Mascot"
"Eggo's Role In 'Stranger Things' Turns Into Free Super Bowl Mention With More To Come"
"Coca-Cola is bringing back New Coke in honor of 'Stranger Things'
'Stranger Things' Trial Split Into Two Phases"
"Duffer Brothers Accused Of Lifting 'Stranger Things' From 2012 Short Film"
Reyes-velarde, Alejandra (April 4, 2018).
'Stranger Things' creators respond to lawsuit alleging they stole the idea for the hit sci-fi series"
'Stranger Things' Creators Headed to Trial for Allegedly Stealing Idea for Netflix Series"
Patten, Dominic; Ramos, Dino-Ray (May 5, 2019).
'Stranger Things' Plagiarism Suit Withdrawn By Plaintiff Just Before Trial"
"This Is The Crazy Government Conspiracy Theory That Inspired 'Stranger Things'
Schladebeck, Jessica (September 1, 2016).
"A look at 'Stranger Things' and the secret government experiments that inspired it"
'Stranger Things' Was Inspired By a Creepy, Supposedly Real Experiment Called The Montauk Project"
"Netflix Sends Cool Cease-and-Desist Letter"
"Netflix Ends Unauthorized 'Stranger Things' Bar With A Super Classy Letter"
"Netflix hit Stranger Things slammed for using Nazi prison and brutal asylum in new series"
"Netflix accused over 'Holocaust link' to Stranger Things"
"Netflix criticised for shooting Stranger Things in Nazi prison and marketing it as hotel"
Analysis of the Duffer Brothers' "show bible"
Music from the Netflix Original Series Season 3
Soundtrack from the Netflix Series, Season 4
Critics' Choice Super Award for Best Science Fiction/Fantasy Series, Limited Series or Made-for-TV Movie
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Title Design
NBC: The First Fifty Years - A Closer Look
A Carol Burnett Special: Carol, Carl, Whoopi and Robin
Strong Poison: A Dorothy L. Sayers Mystery
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Original Main Title Theme Music
High School Musical: The Musical: The Series
Producers Guild of America Award for Best Episodic Drama
Satellite Award for Best Television Series – Genre
Saturn Award for Best Horror Television Series
Best Streaming Horror / Thriller Television Series
Saturn Award for Best New Media Television Series
Actor Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series
Actor Award for Outstanding Action Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Television Series
Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp
Bumping Mics with Jeff Ross & Dave Attell
The Curious Creations of Christine McConnell
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Stranger_Things&oldid=1336265480
2010s American high school television series
2010s American LGBTQ-related drama television series
2010s American science fiction television series
2020s American high school television series
2020s American LGBTQ-related drama television series
2020s American science fiction television series
American English-language television shows
American television series about teenagers
Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series Screen Actors Guild Award winners
Primetime Emmy Award–winning television series
Television series about conspiracy theories
Television series about parallel universes
Television shows about human experimentation
Television shows set in the Midwestern United States
Short description is different from Wikidata
Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
All Wikipedia articles written in American English
Pages using multiple image with manual scaled images
All articles with vague or ambiguous time
Vague or ambiguous time from October 2019
Pages using Sister project links with wikidata mismatch
Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
Pages containing links to subscription-only content

--- NEXT PAGE ---

Hiba: 403 Client Error: Too many requests. Please respect our robot policy https://w.wiki/4wJS. (dd12474) for url: https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Stranger_Things_epiz%C3%B3djainak_list%C3%A1ja

--- NEXT PAGE ---

Hiba: 403 Client Error: Too many requests. Please respect our robot policy https://w.wiki/4wJS. (dd12474) for url: https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stranger_Things_(1._%C3%A9vad)

--- NEXT PAGE ---

webes streaming szolgáltatásán várhatóan 2025-ben indul. Az évad 8 rész hosszúságú, mely három részben jelenik meg, az első november 26-án, a második december 25-én, majd az utolsó, egyben a teljes sorozatot is lezáró rész december 31-én. Az évadot jól megszokott módon a
készítették, Shawn Levy és Dan Cohen mellett.
történései után, 1987 őszén, a csapat neki indul, hogy megtalálja
azzal az indokkal, hogy megöljék a szörnyet miután a szakadékok megnyíltak Hawkinsban. A küldetést megnehezíti, hogy a
eltűnésének évfordulóján, a csapatnak mégegyszer utoljára meg kell küzdeniük a halálos szörnnyel.
(Chapter Two: The Vanishing of Holly Wheeler)
"Stranger Things" Actor: Joe Chrest. (Ted Wheeler)
. Monday Morning Critic Podcast, 2024. február 20. [2024. október 4-i dátummal az
archiválva]. (Hozzáférés: 2024. július 28.)
. The Stuph File Program, 2024. szeptember 9. [2024. október 4-i dátummal az
archiválva]. (Hozzáférés: 2024. szeptember 25.)
When Is Stranger Things 5 Coming Out? Global Release Dates Revealed - Netflix Tudum
Inside the Making of 'Stranger Things' Epic Final Season
Netflix's New Releases Coming in December 2025
, 2025. december 1. (Hozzáférés: 2025. december 6.)
Stranger Things Season 5 Release Dates Revealed Alongside New Teaser Trailer
, 2025. június 1. [2025. június 1-i dátummal az
archiválva]. (Hozzáférés: 2025. június 1.)
https://hu.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Stranger_Things_(5._évad)&oldid=28629506

--- NEXT PAGE ---

Esport1 - Jön a Stranger Things-mese, azt is tudni mikor, sőt már előzetes is van
A vasárnapi matinék mintájára érkezik a Stranger Things: 1985 krónikái, ami a második és a harmadik évad között játszódik majd.
„1985 telén hó borítja a várost, Tótágas borzalmai pedig lassan elmúlnak. Hőseink, Eleven, Mike, Will, Dustin, Lucas és Max visszatértek a normális élethez: D&D, hócsaták és csendes napok következnek. De a jég alatt valami ijesztő ébredezik. Vajon a Tótágasból származik? A Hawkins-i labor mélyéről? Vagy valahonnan egészen máshonnan? Hőseinknek meg kell oldaniuk a rejtélyt, és megmenteni Hawkinst ebben az eddig elmeséletlen történetben, ami a Stranger Things univerzumában játszódik.”
majd a hamarosan érkező a Stranger Things: 1985 krónikái című spin-off, amit az anyaszéria alkotói, azaz a Duffer-testvérek szállítanak a Deadpool & rozsomák rendezőjével, Shawn Levyvel karöltve, és amelyhez a minap premierdátum és előzetes is érkezett végre. Ezeket a lenti cikkünkben találjátok.
Premierdátumot kapott az utóbbi évek legjobb misztikus sorozatának negyedik szezonja – és bizony nem kell rá sokat várni!
Rachel McAdams és Dylan O'Brien főszereplésével futott be a Segítség!, de jó hat tudod: kell hozzá gyomor.
Bizonyára kevés ember fog meglepődni azon, hogy a széria weboldalán található titokzatos visszaszámlálás nem a Fallout 3 vagy a New Vegas sokat pletykált felújítását takarja.
Az k-pop énekeslányok nem állnak meg a Netflixnél, a Google keresőjébe is beköltöztek.